README.md, before:

Description
===========

Installs and configures MySQL client or server.

Requirements
============

Chef 0.10.10+.

Platform
--------

* Debian, Ubuntu
* CentOS, Red Hat, Fedora
* Mac OS X (Using homebrew)

Tested on:

* Debian 5.0, 6.0
* Ubuntu 10.04-12.04
* CentOS 5.5-5.8, 6.2-6.3
* Mac OS X 10.7.2

Cookbooks
---------

Requires Opscode's openssl cookbook for secure password generation.
See _Attributes_ and _Usage_ for more information.

The RubyGem installation in the `mysql::ruby` recipe requires a C
compiler and Ruby development headers to be installed in order to
build the mysql gem.

Requires `homebrew`
[cookbook](http://community.opscode.com/cookbooks/homebrew) on Mac OS
X.

Resources and Providers
=======================

The LWRP that used to ship as part of this cookbook has been
refactored into the
[database](http://community.opscode.com/cookbooks/database)
cookbook. Please see the README for details on updated usage.

Attributes
==========

See the `attributes/server.rb` or `attributes/client.rb` for default
values. Several attributes have values that vary based on the node's
platform and version.

* `node['mysql']['client']['packages']` - An array of package names
  that should be installed on "client" systems. This can be modified,
  e.g., to specify packages for Percona.
* `node['mysql']['server']['packages']` - An array of package names
  that should be installed on "server" systems. This can be modified,
  e.g., to specify packages for Percona.

* `node['mysql']['auto-increment-increment']` -
  auto-increment-increment value in my.cnf
* `node['mysql']['auto-increment-offset]` - auto-increment-offset
  value in my.cnf
* `node['mysql']['basedir']` - Base directory where MySQL is installed
* `node['mysql']['bind_address']` - Listen address for MySQLd
* `node['mysql']['conf_dir']` - Location for mysql conf directory
* `node['mysql']['confd_dir']` - Location for mysql conf.d style
  include directory
* `node['mysql']['data_dir']` - Location for mysql data directory
* `node['mysql']['ec2_path']` - location of mysql data_dir on EC2
  nodes
* `node['mysql']['grants_path']` - Path where the grants.sql should be
  written
* `node['mysql']['mysqladmin_bin']` - Path to the mysqladmin binary
* `node['mysql']['old_passwords']` - Sets the `old_passwords` value in
  my.cnf.
* `node['mysql']['pid_file']` - Path to the mysqld.pid file
* `node['mysql']['port']` - Liten port for MySQLd
* `node['mysql']['reload_action']` - Action to take when mysql conf
  files are modified. Also allows "reload" and "none".
* `node['mysql']['root_group']` - The default group of the "root" user
* `node['mysql']['service_name']` - The name of the mysqld service
* `node['mysql']['socket']` - Path to the mysqld.sock file
* `node['mysql']['use_upstart']` - Whether to use upstart for the
  service provider

Performance and other "tunable" attributes are under the
`node['mysql']['tunable']` attribute, corresponding to the same-named
parameter in my.cnf, and the default values are used. See
`attributes/server.rb`.

The following attributes are randomly generated passwords handled in
the `mysql::server` recipe, using the OpenSSL cookbook's
`secure_password` helper method. These are set using the `set_unless`
node attribute method, which allows them to be easily overridden e.g.
in a role.

* `node['mysql']['server_root_password']` - Set the server's root
  password
* `node['mysql']['server_repl_password']` - Set the replication user
  'repl' password
* `node['mysql']['server_debian_password']` - Set the debian-sys-maint
  user password

## Windows Specific

The following attributes are specific to Windows platforms.

* `node['mysql']['client']['version']` - The version of MySQL
  connector to install.
* `node['mysql']['client']['arch']` - Force 32 bit to work with the
  mysql gem
* `node['mysql']['client']['package_file']` - The MSI file for the
  mysql connector.
* `node['mysql']['client']['url']` - URL to download the mysql
  connector.
* `node['mysql']['client']['packages']` - Similar to other platforms,
  this is the name of the client package.
* `node['mysql']['client']['basedir']` - Base installation location
* `node['mysql']['client']['lib_dir']` - Libraries under the base location
* `node['mysql']['client']['bin_dir']` - binary directory under base location
* `node['mysql']['client']['ruby_dir']` - location where the Ruby
  binaries will be

Usage
=====

On client nodes, use the client (or default) recipe:

    { "run_list": ["recipe[mysql::client]"] }

This will install the MySQL client libraries and development headers
on the system.

On nodes which may use the `database` cookbook's mysql resources, also
use the ruby recipe. This installs the mysql RubyGem in the Ruby
environment Chef is using via `chef_gem`.

    { "run_list": ["recipe[mysql::client]", "recipe[mysql::ruby]"] }

If you need to install the mysql Ruby library as a package for your
system, override the client packages attribute in your node or role.
For example, on an Ubuntu system:

    {
      "mysql": {
        "client": {
          "packages": ["mysql-client", "libmysqlclient-dev","ruby-mysql"]
        }
      }
    }

This creates a resource object for the package and does the
installation before other recipes are parsed. You'll need to have the
C compiler and such (ie, build-essential on Ubuntu) before running the
recipes, but we already do that when installing Chef :-).

On server nodes, use the server recipe:

    { "run_list": ["recipe[mysql::server]"] }

On Debian and Ubuntu, this will preseed the mysql-server package with
the randomly generated root password in the recipe file. On other
platforms, it simply installs the required packages. It will also
create an SQL file, `/etc/mysql/grants.sql`, that will be used to set up
grants for the root, repl and debian-sys-maint users.

The recipe will perform a `node.save` unless it is run under
`chef-solo` after the password attributes are used to ensure that in
the event of a failed run, the saved attributes would be used.

On EC2 nodes, use the `server_ec2` recipe and the mysql data dir will
be set up in the ephmeral storage.

    { "run_list": ["recipe[mysql::server_ec2]"] }

When the `ec2_path` doesn't exist we look for a mounted filesystem
(eg, EBS) and move the data_dir there.

The client recipe is already included by server and 'default' recipes.

For more infromation on the compile vs execution phase of a Chef run:

* http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Anatomy+of+a+Chef+Run

Chef Solo Note
==============

These node attributes are stored on the Chef
server when using `chef-client`. Because `chef-solo` does not
connect to a server or save the node object at all, to have the same
passwords persist across `chef-solo` runs, you must specify them in
the `json_attribs` file used. For example:

    {
      "mysql": {
        "server_root_password": "iloverandompasswordsbutthiswilldo",
        "server_repl_password": "iloverandompasswordsbutthiswilldo",
        "server_debian_password": "iloverandompasswordsbutthiswilldo"
      },
      "run_list":["recipe[mysql::server]"]
    }

License and Author
==================

- Author:: Joshua Timberman (<joshua@opscode.com>)
- Author:: AJ Christensen (<aj@opscode.com>)
- Author:: Seth Chisamore (<schisamo@opscode.com>)
- Author:: Brian Bianco (<brian.bianco@gmail.com>)
- Author:: Jesse Howarth (<him@jessehowarth.com>)
- Author:: Andrew Crump (<andrew@kotirisoftware.com>)

Copyright:: 2009-2012 Opscode, Inc

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

Commit message:

Adds Galera server clustering mysql recipe
* Does a custom install of the MySQL-Galera multi-master
  cluster packages from Launchpad.
* Makes as few changes to the mysql::server and template
  files as possible, only adding required attributes to
  get Galera running

README.md, after:

Description
===========

Installs and configures MySQL client or server.

Requirements
============

Chef 0.10.10+.

Platform
--------

* Debian, Ubuntu
* CentOS, Red Hat, Fedora
* Mac OS X (Using homebrew)

Tested on:

* Debian 5.0, 6.0
* Ubuntu 10.04-12.04
* CentOS 5.5-5.8, 6.2-6.3
* Mac OS X 10.7.2

Cookbooks
---------

Requires Opscode's openssl cookbook for secure password generation.
See _Attributes_ and _Usage_ for more information.

The RubyGem installation in the `mysql::ruby` recipe requires a C
compiler and Ruby development headers to be installed in order to
build the mysql gem.

Requires `homebrew`
[cookbook](http://community.opscode.com/cookbooks/homebrew) on Mac OS
X.

Resources and Providers
=======================

The LWRP that used to ship as part of this cookbook has been
refactored into the
[database](http://community.opscode.com/cookbooks/database)
cookbook. Please see the README for details on updated usage.

Attributes
==========

See the `attributes/server.rb` or `attributes/client.rb` for default
values. Several attributes have values that vary based on the node's
platform and version.

* `node['mysql']['client']['packages']` - An array of package names
  that should be installed on "client" systems. This can be modified,
  e.g., to specify packages for Percona.
* `node['mysql']['server']['packages']` - An array of package names
  that should be installed on "server" systems. This can be modified,
  e.g., to specify packages for Percona.

* `node['mysql']['auto-increment-increment']` -
  auto-increment-increment value in my.cnf
* `node['mysql']['auto-increment-offset]` - auto-increment-offset
  value in my.cnf
* `node['mysql']['basedir']` - Base directory where MySQL is installed
* `node['mysql']['bind_address']` - Listen address for MySQLd
* `node['mysql']['conf_dir']` - Location for mysql conf directory
* `node['mysql']['confd_dir']` - Location for mysql conf.d style
  include directory
* `node['mysql']['data_dir']` - Location for mysql data directory
* `node['mysql']['ec2_path']` - location of mysql data_dir on EC2
  nodes
* `node['mysql']['grants_path']` - Path where the grants.sql should be
  written
* `node['mysql']['mysqladmin_bin']` - Path to the mysqladmin binary
* `node['mysql']['old_passwords']` - Sets the `old_passwords` value in
  my.cnf.
* `node['mysql']['pid_file']` - Path to the mysqld.pid file
* `node['mysql']['port']` - Liten port for MySQLd
* `node['mysql']['reload_action']` - Action to take when mysql conf
  files are modified. Also allows "reload" and "none".
* `node['mysql']['root_group']` - The default group of the "root" user
* `node['mysql']['service_name']` - The name of the mysqld service
* `node['mysql']['socket']` - Path to the mysqld.sock file
* `node['mysql']['use_upstart']` - Whether to use upstart for the
  service provider

Performance and other "tunable" attributes are under the
`node['mysql']['tunable']` attribute, corresponding to the same-named
parameter in my.cnf, and the default values are used. See
`attributes/server.rb`.

The following attributes are randomly generated passwords handled in
the `mysql::server` recipe, using the OpenSSL cookbook's
`secure_password` helper method. These are set using the `set_unless`
node attribute method, which allows them to be easily overridden e.g.
in a role.

* `node['mysql']['server_root_password']` - Set the server's root
  password
* `node['mysql']['server_repl_password']` - Set the replication user
  'repl' password
* `node['mysql']['server_debian_password']` - Set the debian-sys-maint
  user password

## Windows Specific

The following attributes are specific to Windows platforms.

* `node['mysql']['client']['version']` - The version of MySQL
  connector to install.
* `node['mysql']['client']['arch']` - Force 32 bit to work with the
  mysql gem
* `node['mysql']['client']['package_file']` - The MSI file for the
  mysql connector.
* `node['mysql']['client']['url']` - URL to download the mysql
  connector.
* `node['mysql']['client']['packages']` - Similar to other platforms,
  this is the name of the client package.
* `node['mysql']['client']['basedir']` - Base installation location
* `node['mysql']['client']['lib_dir']` - Libraries under the base location
* `node['mysql']['client']['bin_dir']` - binary directory under base location
* `node['mysql']['client']['ruby_dir']` - location where the Ruby
  binaries will be

Usage
=====

On client nodes, use the client (or default) recipe:

    { "run_list": ["recipe[mysql::client]"] }

This will install the MySQL client libraries and development headers
on the system.

On nodes which may use the `database` cookbook's mysql resources, also
use the ruby recipe. This installs the mysql RubyGem in the Ruby
environment Chef is using via `chef_gem`.

    { "run_list": ["recipe[mysql::client]", "recipe[mysql::ruby]"] }

If you need to install the mysql Ruby library as a package for your
system, override the client packages attribute in your node or role.
For example, on an Ubuntu system:

    {
      "mysql": {
        "client": {
          "packages": ["mysql-client", "libmysqlclient-dev","ruby-mysql"]
        }
      }
    }

This creates a resource object for the package and does the
installation before other recipes are parsed. You'll need to have the
C compiler and such (ie, build-essential on Ubuntu) before running the
recipes, but we already do that when installing Chef :-).

On server nodes, use the server recipe:

    { "run_list": ["recipe[mysql::server]"] }

On Debian and Ubuntu, this will preseed the mysql-server package with
the randomly generated root password in the recipe file. On other
platforms, it simply installs the required packages. It will also
create an SQL file, `/etc/mysql/grants.sql`, that will be used to set up
grants for the root, repl and debian-sys-maint users.

The recipe will perform a `node.save` unless it is run under
`chef-solo` after the password attributes are used to ensure that in
the event of a failed run, the saved attributes would be used.

On EC2 nodes, use the `server_ec2` recipe and the mysql data dir will
be set up in the ephmeral storage.

    { "run_list": ["recipe[mysql::server_ec2]"] }

When the `ec2_path` doesn't exist we look for a mounted filesystem
(eg, EBS) and move the data_dir there.

The client recipe is already included by server and 'default' recipes.

For more infromation on the compile vs execution phase of a Chef run:

* http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Anatomy+of+a+Chef+Run

Galera Cluster
--------------

You can set up a multi-master MySQL Galera cluster using the `mysql::server_galera`
recipe. Note that this recipe is not compatible with the `mysql::server`, and adding
the former to the run_list of a node with the latter will remove all regular MySQL
server packages from the node and install the custom MySQL-Galera packages.

Add `recipe[mysql::server_galera]` to your node's run list. You will also need to
set the values of the following node attributes:

* `node['galera']['nodes']` should be a list of IP addresses or hostnames for
   all machines in the cluster.
* `node['wsrep']['cluster_name'] should be the common name of your cluster.

Chef Solo Note
==============

These node attributes are stored on the Chef
server when using `chef-client`. Because `chef-solo` does not
connect to a server or save the node object at all, to have the same
passwords persist across `chef-solo` runs, you must specify them in
the `json_attribs` file used. For example:

    {
      "mysql": {
        "server_root_password": "iloverandompasswordsbutthiswilldo",
        "server_repl_password": "iloverandompasswordsbutthiswilldo",
        "server_debian_password": "iloverandompasswordsbutthiswilldo"
      },
      "run_list":["recipe[mysql::server]"]
    }

License and Author
==================

- Author:: Joshua Timberman (<joshua@opscode.com>)
- Author:: AJ Christensen (<aj@opscode.com>)
- Author:: Seth Chisamore (<schisamo@opscode.com>)
- Author:: Brian Bianco (<brian.bianco@gmail.com>)
- Author:: Jesse Howarth (<him@jessehowarth.com>)
- Author:: Andrew Crump (<andrew@kotirisoftware.com>)

Copyright:: 2009-2012 Opscode, Inc

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
